---
title: 'Apps I Use 2019'
slug: 'apps-i-use-2019'
date: '2019-09-03T00:00'
tags:
  - 'product'
---

On my previous, now offline blog nicknish.blog, I created an Apps I Use page that showed my apps
that I use every day (inspired by Tim Ferriss's _[Apps I Use](https://tim.blog/apps-i-use/)_).

I'm excited to relaunch this page as an annual post so each year we can see what's changed.

## What's Changed Since 2017

### Additions

It's been a few years since I updated the old page. I'm excited to talk about some additions that
were added since then.

**[Brave browser](https://brave.com/)**: Brave is a privacy-focused browser. By default, ads and ad
trackers that tell websites info about your identity are disabled. A few years ago, Brave forked
Chromium (Google Chrome's open-sourced underlying browser software) to develop the new major browser
which is faster, more stable, and all the niceties of Chrome including support for Chrome extensions
and a familiar interface. It's fantastic.

**[CloudApp](https://my.cl.ly/r/2q1d1h0M013U2W00) (replaced GIPHY Capture)**: Upload files to the
cloud for sharing. Ironically, I barely use Cloudapp for file sharing but its screenshot and
video/gif recorder are stellar and worth a subscription alone. CloudApp is the tool I’ve found to
screenshot or record a video/gif of your screen, and it’s proven invaluable to my workflow.

**[Notion](https://www.notion.so/?r=ef5f82f2c0eb44c1ac64ece78b66c9c0) (replaced Evernote)**: Digital
workspace and note-taking app. I'm such a fan of this product and it's been invaluable for my
writing, note-taking, and learning process. I've written [here](what-makes-notion-great) about some
things I adore about Notion.

**[Pocket Casts](https://www.pocketcasts.com/) (replaces Overcast)**: Podcast listener. I prefer
Pocket Casts UX and it has a small flat price for the app.

**[Google News](https://news.google.com/)**

**[Google Photos](https://photos.google.com/)**: Photo backup service. Pricing is cheap with a
fantastic UX, scary-good search, and bulk-deleting photos that have already been uploaded on the iOS
app.

**[Dark Reader Chrome Extension](https://darkreader.org/)**

**[Honey Chrome Extension](joinhoney.com/ref/dyuwzc)**

**[Refined GitHub Chrome Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/refined-github/hlepfoohegkhhmjieoechaddaejaokhf?hl=en)**

### Removals

Of course, when adding new tools, it's always good to trim the fat. With gratitude in my heart, I
thank each of these services for providing me value and enjoyment at one point.

- Coach.me
- Evernote
- GIPHY Capture
- Kaleidoscope
- Noizio
- Overcast
- Sylo
- Workflowy

---

## Productivity

**[1Password](https://1password.com)** (Android, iOS, macOS, Windows, web, browser extension) –
Stores and creates secure passwords, notes, IDs, software licenses, and more. I haven’t forgotten a
password in a long time and I use its 2-Factor Authentication tool to protect my most important
logins.

**[Alfred](https://www.alfredapp.com/)** (macOS) – Like Spotlight on steroids. Instantly open apps,
run scripted actions, and search files with a global search bar.

**[Brave](https://brave.com/)** (Android, iOS, macOS, Windows) - Web browser with a focus on privacy

**[CloudApp](https://my.cl.ly/r/2q1d1h0M013U2W00)**: Upload files to the cloud for sharing. Best
screenshot and video/gif recording tool that I've used before.

**[Dropbox](https://db.tt/w53NXlNH)** (iOS, Android, macOS, Windows, web, browser extension) – Backs
up files to the cloud

**[Fantastical](https://flexibits.com/fantastical)** (iOS, macOS) – Schedules calendar and todos
using spoken English

**[Gmail](https://mail.google.com)** (Android, iOS, web) – Email client. iOS app recently added a
scheduling feature and swipe gestures that improved the core experience.

**[Google Docs](https://docs.google.com/)/[Sheets](https://docs.google.com/)** (Android, iOS, web) –
Write, analyze, and collaborate in the cloud

**[Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/)** (Android, iOS, macOS, Windows, web) – Stores and
creates files and documents in the cloud. I primarily use Drive for documents and Dropbox for
everything else.

**[Hazel](https://www.noodlesoft.com/)** (macOS) – Watches your files and runs scripts on them. ex.
One of my Hazel rules watches for PNG or GIF files in my screenshot folder and runs them through an
image optimizer. This makes sharing images faster.

**[Notion](https://www.notion.so/?r=ef5f82f2c0eb44c1ac64ece78b66c9c0)**: Digital workspace and
note-taking app. Like Evernote, but a whole lot more powerful.

**[Pasteapp](https://pasteapp.me/)** (iOS, macOS) – Saves copied text, images, and files to a visual
clipboard that can be searched and referenced quickly. By far the best clipboard app out there.

**[Scanner Pro](https://readdle.com/scannerpro)** (iOS) – Scans documents and saves them to the
cloud, like to Dropbox or Google Drive

**[Slack](https://slack.com/)** (Android, iOS, macOS, Windows, web) – Communicate for work, side
projects, and in communities. I combine Slack with other tools like IFTTT, Zapier, and Notify to
give me daily Google Analytics reports, notify me when people are talking about me or my company,
and more.

**[Spark](https://sparkmailapp.com/)** (iOS, macOS) – Email client to quickly sort through email
fast and beautifully

## Programming

**[iTerm](https://www.iterm2.com/)** (macOS) – Bash terminal that is highly configurable and easy to
use. My favorite feature is the ability to save window arrangements for my recent projects.

**[Microsoft Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/)** (macOS, Windows) – Configurable
and performant text-editor. Hugely innovative in its developer tools and stellar developer
community. Easily transition from Sublime Text by downloading the keymap.

## Utilities

**[Endurance](https://enduranceapp.com/)** (macOS) \*\*\*\*– Extends your battery life. Generally
gives me an additional 1-4 hours depending on what I'm doing.

**[Flux](https://justgetflux.com/)** (macOS, Windows) – Adapts computer screen colors to warmer hues
in the evenings. Computers normally emit blue light which is similar to daylight and has been shown
to cause insomnia. Great for late-night work sessions.

**[Google News](https://news.google.com/)** (Android, iOS) – News

**[Google Photos](https://photos.google.com/)** (Android, iOS, web) – Stores photos in the cloud.
Scary good photo search.

**[Grammarly](https://grammarly.com/)** (Android, iOS, macOS, Windows, web, browser extension, word
processors) – Proofreads spelling and grammar. Crucial for email, professional documents, and blog
posts.

**[Headspace](https://www.headspace.com/invite/AGJXt)** (Android, iOS, web) – Guided and non-guided
meditation app. It has made meditation fun, accessible to anyone, and rewarding. All without any
woo-wooness if you're not into the spiritual stuff.

**[Pocket](https://getpocket.com)** (Android, iOS, macOS, Windows, web, browser extension) – Saves
web articles for reading later

**[Pocket Casts](https://www.pocketcasts.com/)** (Android, iOS, web) – Podcast listener that looks
beautiful, has great power-user features like notification per podcast and speed adjustments, and
discovery.

**[Product Hunt](https://producthunt.com)** (Android, iOS, web) – Learn about new products

**[Reeder](https://reederapp.com/)** (iOS, macOS) – Collects RSS feeds and Pocket into a single
beautiful reading experience. I've recently stopped using the Pocket app to use Reeder and also to
cut down on email newsletters.

**[Rocket](https://matthewpalmer.net/rocket/)** (macOS) – Searches and inserts emoji into any text
field

## Browser Extensions

**[Dark Reader](https://darkreader.org/)** – Flips website colors to a darker tone. This paired with
Flux is wonderful for great late-night work sessions.

**[Honey](joinhoney.com/ref/dyuwzc)** - Searches for discount codes when you're shopping online

**[Refined GitHub](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/refined-github/hlepfoohegkhhmjieoechaddaejaokhf?hl=en)**
– Adds more features to GitHub

**[Toby](http://www.gettoby.com/)** – Browser bookmarks on steroids. A utility that helps save
browser tabs to help prevent context-switching and reduce tab overload.

## Personal Finance

**[Personal Capital](https://share.personalcapital.com/x/z4R7Pg)** (Android, iOS, web) – Personal
finance tool to monitor your overall finances. I use this to track my overall net worth and have a
high-level look at my entire financial picture.

**[Mint](https://mint.com)** (Android, iOS, web) – Personal finance tool to monitor your finances
and plan budgets.

**[Wealthfront](https://wlth.fr/23z5OAm)** (Android, iOS, web) – Banking and roboadvisor service.
Roboadvisors are automated investment firms that invest and reinvest for you. I have a high-yield
savings account for holding short-term cash (1 week-2 year) and a separate brokerage account for
riskier long-term investment (+2 years).

**[Vanguard](https://investor.vanguard.com/home/)** (Android, iOS, web) – Purchase low-cost
investment funds. Mature, secure finance company with a history of being customer-first. I have a
ROTH IRA and brokerage account with Vanguard.
